That's meeting, that's all you ever
wanted to know about meetings,
it's more than I ever wanted
to talk about meetings.
So, let's talk a little bit about
metrics because I think metrics
are really important
to product management.
I am not a statistician, I am not going to
spend a lot of time talking about stats
because I don't know a lot about stats.
I know they're important and I get a lot
of people to do stats on my behalf.
And or I look a lot of dashboards.
So I had never taken a stats course
until like seriously three months
ago four months ago when I took my
first stats course as a part of my MBA.
Until then I had just consumed stats and
not really actually,
been on the other side of producing them.
So the first thing I to say is stats is
actually one of the most useful forms
of mathematics to someone that
works in an office environment.
Just because a lot of the stuff that
we do has to do with statistics.
So I pulled out some things that I
think it's just generally useful for
a product manager to be aware of or
to think about.
First of all, my master's program
borrowed heavily from this
book here called OpenStats.
I put in here there's
a couple of versions of this.
You can buy a paperback edition of it,
but it's also just free as a PDF.
One of the cooler open-source projects, in
my opinion, a bunch of statisticians came
together and made a free stats book,
and they update it constantly.
You can see that they're on the fourth
edition here of the OpenIntro to
statistics.
And there is one that's actually,
more gauged towards software engineering,
I believe it's an R, and R is a very
silly language that I don't like writing.
So if you are a normal
Python JavaScript developer,
you're gonna find R fairly silly as well.
R is written by statisticians for
statisticians, therefore it does not feel
C-like, and I think we all like
C-like languages for the most part.
So just be aware anyway.
Yeah, so you can see this is all in R.
In other words,
unless you are really bent on learning R
maybe just stick to OpenIntro statistics.
So I'm gonna say any moment that you spend
learning stats, it's gonna be useful to
you, it's not a moment-wasted If it's not
required by any means, but it is useful.
So I'm gonna just leave
a couple of things in here,
I think sampling is something
that I found counterintuitive.
But I found very interesting if you take
a truly random sample of a large group and
the sample is large enough that you can
say it's representative of the whole.
And why this is important something
like AB testing or talking to users and
some of those things that if you
can get a large enough sample and
you are not biasing your selection.
So that for example, like talking
to your users, it is biased in
the fact that you're you're biased in your
finding users that will talk to you and
that you have access to no matter
what that's still a biased sample.
It's still better than nothing,
probably question mark?
But generally, if you can get
a truly random sample of your users,
you can say that that's representative.
And therefore you can make inferences of
like, hey, so many of our users are using
this browser and they're, these kind
of users and those kind of things.
So, getting more information about who's
using my product sampling is critical.
Now, again, this is stats one on one,
I'm sure all of your data scientists
are like, yeah, obviously dah, right?
Just useful to me.
P-values, I'm not gonna spend a ton of
time about this because I don't have
a ton of depth here, and
this is the most advanced stats
concept that I want to talk about.
But a p-value basically is saying,
lower p-values means these two things
are more closely correlated that you
can think of it like that I think I spent
a bit of time crafting this sentence here.
A more accurate way to state what
the p-value is is how likely that these
statistics would happen if the things
we're measuring are totally uncorrelated
to each other.
Which is hard for me to conceptualize,
which is why I came up with
this second sentence that lower
p-value means the two things look
like they're really correlated.
I don't wanna spend much more
time on it than that just because
it's not actually
the point of this course.
But a lot of people have arbitrarily
chosen the p-value of 0.05
which is otherwise 5%, it's like being the
threshold to call something statistically
significant, right?
This comes into play, imagine you have an
AB test where, we talked about that with
Netflix, on Netflix you have
a button that says, sign me up now.
And a different button that says, just
click here for free Netflix, and you have
a, you're in an AB test of showing 50% of
users this one, and 50% of users this one.
And you end up with a result that
treatment be that you click here for
free Netflix is better for
that has a higher signup rate
doesn't say the p-value was like 0.2,
right?
You would call that statistically
insignificant in other words, this was
random noise, and we actually can't make
a decision based on this experiment.
Or if it had a p-value of 0.01,
you could say, actually, I've basically
proven that this is the better treatment,
and we should definitely use this one.
That's what I wanted you
to get out of p-values, so
that you can read experiment results and
say, okay, this one's better or
okay I actually can't take any
information back out of this.
So like the p-value is 0.2 it's not
saying that it's the opposite it's not
saying that like treatment A was better
what it is saying is that this experiment
was inconclusive So
it either means you need to retry your
experiment under different constraints so
that you can tighten that p-value up, or
it means that there actually just isn't
correlation between those two things.
One of those buttons isn't gonna
do any better than the other one.
And you can't prove it in this particular
experiment that you were doing.
That make sense, is that enough nonsense
of Brian trying to explain statistics?
Did I mostly get that right?
>> Yeah, that's pretty good.
>> Okay.
>> The American Statistical Association
has published a single
consensus paper in its history,
and it is on the p-value.
And it is worth looking up.
>> Okay.
>> Cuz it explains some of the confusion
around how it's been misused, well,
I think you've done a great job
>> Okay, I appreciate that.
I spent a lot of time crafting that
section because I don't wanna get this
wrong because otherwise the chat
is gonna tear me apart and
then Twitter is gonna tell me apart.
It's happened before my computer science
class I there was Reddit threads about
what Brian got wrong on the very first
time that I taught it that I fixed for
the current one.
So go watch the current one to
think I think it's pretty good.
Okay a little bit about graphing,
the first rule of fight club
is never use pie charts.
[LAUGH].
The first rule is never use pie
charts ever, just hard pass.
There is no good reason to
ever use a pie chart, okay?
If you walk away with nothing else from
this course just never use a pie chart.
You are already better pm
than some that I know.
I'll tell you about why in just a second,
cuz everyone wants to use a pie chart.
Why do we use graphs,
why do we put graphs in anything?
A lot of people put in graphs
as we talked about earlier,
which is like to show their work is like,
look at these numbers.
I don't care about your numbers
I don't even care about like,
contextually showing me numbers
does nothing for me, so
don't just show me a graph
just to show me a graph.
Graphs are for storytelling,
they are tools of storytelling.
Numbers themselves are not
useful to show off,
we use them to describe changes and
to identify needs, right?
So what if you show me a graph you
better have a sentence underneath it or
you're gonna you're
bound to tell m is like.
Here is our signup graph of people signing
up or tenants on a line graph over-time.
And there's a dip here,
let's talk about the dip or
let's talk about why this shut up., right?
And you're using that as a as a tool
to tell me something about it, okay?
So given that you wanna have
a graph that shows me your story,
this is why pie charts are terrible, is
because they're awful at telling stories,
in other words,
they basically don't tell stories.
So I put a little graphic here, this came
from the extreme presentation method,
there's lots of things out there is like,
what do you wanna talk about?
And so like,
do you wanna show relationships,
do you wanna show distributions,
do you wanna show composition?
Do you wanna show comparisons and
then like there's a bit of
a selection chart here.
So comparison, you wanna show it over
time and you wanna show a few periods,
then a column chart would be good for
a single, a few categories, or
a line chart would be good for
many categories, right?
I actually went through this and
was like this is actually a pretty
good selection methodology here.
Generally, when I have numbers that I
wanna show in a graph, either I'll ask my
data scientists, because to them
it's obvious which one you choose.
Or I'll just Google it like
I have this kind of data,
what kind of charts should I use?
That'll help.
And actually Tableau, if you've
ever used the Tableau software, and
I know that that's somewhat a competitor
to what the thing that I work on now.
It's actually fairly good at generally
suggesting you have data that looks
like this, you might consider these
kind of charts, that also helps as well.
So tell a story with a graph, and
then choose the right graph to highlight
whatever story you're telling.
Like a good one that I had to show
recently was cost, like I was showing
the COGS, and I can't remember what
COGS stands for, cost of goods?
>> Sold.
>> Sold, thank you.
Which is basically like,
how much does it cost to run my service?
And we had one part of our spinner
that was ballooning, right?.
So I showed it in a stacked bar chart.
So basically, you could see over time that
like the spending was staying the same.
And if you were just looking at
the total cost of our total COGS for
my entire product,
it looks like we were flat and
like good job cuz we were growing
users but not growing cost.
We actually saw that our costs were going
down because we had done a lot of good
infrastructure work.
But we had one part of our service that
was ballooning at such a rate that it
looked like it was flat, right?
And so I was trying to say it
looks like we're doing a good job,
we're actually doing an awful job.
At some parts, we're doing a good job of
other things, but a stacked bar chart told
that story really, really well because you
could see everything else shrinking and
that one part growing, right?
And stacked bar chart, you can see
that that's this one down here,
this is a stacked bar chart right
here the stacked column chart.
So I've used lots of different
charts to tell stories,
so just select one that helps
you make that a bit bigger.
Select one that helps you tell
the story that you wanna tell.